output data source samples (#58)
Esri/arcgis-experience-builder-sdk-resources: samples/widgets/widget-output-data-source/client-side-output/README.md

# Client-side output data source

> Output data source can save data in data source instance, we call it client-side output data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An output data source can save data in data source instance, this is called a client-side output data source.
```

## How to use the sample

Clone the [sample repo](https://github.com/esri/arcgis-experience-builder-sdk-resources) and copy this widget's folder (within `samples/widgets`) to the `client/your-extensions/widgets` folder of your Experience Builder installation.

## How it works

> 1. In `setting.tsx`, use `DataSourceSelector` to allow user to select an original data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In `setting.tsx`, use `DataSourceSelector` to allow the user to select an original data source.
```

> 2. In `setting.tsx`, declare output data source inside `onChange` callback of `DataSourceSelector`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In `setting.tsx`, declare output data source inside `onChange` callback of `DataSourceSelector`.
```

```ts
// Let framework know which data source current widget is using and which data source current widget is outputing.
this.props.onSettingChange({
  id: this.props.id,
  useDataSources: useDataSources
}, outputDsJsons)
```

> 3. In `setting.tsx`, select a filter and save it in widget config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In `setting.tsx`, select a filter and save it in the widget config.
```

```tsx
<SqlExpressionBuilderPopup
  dataSource={ds}
  mode={SqlExpressionMode.Simple}
  expression={this.props.config.sqlExpression}
  // use this.props.onSettingChange to save filter to config inside this callback
  onChange={this.onSqlExpressionChange}
  isOpen={this.state.isSqlBuilderOpen}
  toggle={this.toggleSqlBuilder}
/>
```

> 4. In `widget.tsx`, use `DataSourceComponent` to create original data source instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In `widget.tsx`, use `DataSourceComponent` to create the original data source instance.
```

> 5. Update output data source's source records every time user clicking `update output data source` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Update output data source's source records every time the user clicks the  `update output data source` button.
```

```tsx
<Button onClick={this.setSourceRecordsToOutputDs}>
  Update output data source
</Button>
```

> Please note that the widget only generates output data source. If you want to use the output data source, please add another widget (such as List widget) and select the output data source for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please note that the widget only generates output data source. If you want to use the output data source, please add another widget (such as List widget) and select the output data source for it. This sample widget does not listen to the origin data source change, you can use `onDataSourceInfoChange` callback of the `DataSourceComponent` to listen to the origin data source change.
```
